# Voter App

✨ **This workspace has been generated by [Nx, Smart Monorepos · Fast CI.](https://nx.dev)** ✨

## Features

- **Manage Voters and Candidates:** Users can add new candidates and voters to the system.

- **Real-Time Updates:** Upon adding voters or candidates, a notification confirms the action, and the dropdown lists are immediately updated.

- **Voting System:** Voters can select their name and a candidate from dropdown menus to cast their vote.

- **Vote Tracking:** After voting, the candidate's vote tally increments, and the voter's status updates to show they have voted.

- **Duplicate Prevention:** The system ensures that each voter and candidate is unique, preventing duplicates.

- **Notifications:** Users receive notifications for successful actions or errors, such as trying to add a duplicate entry.

- **Responsive Design:** The application is completely responsive, ensuring that when viewed on mobile, the blocks wrap accordingly.


## Repository and Deployment

- **GitHub Repository:** Access the source code, report issues, or contribute to the project on GitHub: [https://github.com/irowbin/voters](https://github.com/irowbin/voters).
- **Live Application:** Explore the live version deployed on Vercel: [https://voters-app.vercel.app/](https://voters-app.vercel.app/).

## Setting up the Development Environment

This project was developed with Node.js and npm. While it was initially built using Node.js `v18.18.2` and npm `v9.8.1`, it is designed to be compatible with later versions. To set up your development environment:

1. **Clone the repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/irowbin/voters
cd VoterApp
```

1. **Install dependencies:**

Run the following command in the project directory:

```bash
npm install
```

This will install all necessary dependencies as listed in `package.json`.

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run several scripts defined in `package.json`:

- **`npm start`:** Launches the app in development mode. Navigate to [http://localhost:4200](http://localhost:4200) to view it in your browser. The app will automatically reload if you make edits.

- **`npm run build`:** Compiles the app for production to the `dist/apps/voter-app/browser` folder, optimizing the build for performance and efficiency.

- **`npm run format`:** Formats the codebase using Prettier, ensuring consistency across TypeScript, HTML, SCSS, and JSON files.

- **`npm run lint`:** Lints and fixes files across the application, enforcing code quality and style guidelines.

## Project Structure

The application's structure is designed for scalability and ease of navigation:

- **assets/**: Static assets like images and fonts (initially contains `.gitkeep`).

- **app/**: Core Angular components, modules, and services.

- **models/**: TypeScript models or interfaces.

- **utils/**: Utility functions for general use across the app.

- **+state/**: Application state management using NgRx, including actions, effects, reducers, and selectors.

- **api/**: Mock or real API calls for fetching application data.

- **main.ts**: Entry point of the application.

- **styles.scss**: Global stylesheet.

- **index.html**: Main HTML file.

- **favicon.ico**: Application favicon.

- **test-setup.ts**: Test configuration file.

## Technical Stack

- **Build Tool:** Nx for monorepo management, providing a set of extensible dev tools for building Angular, React applications.
- **Framework:** Angular for building scalable and maintainable applications.
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS for utility-first CSS management.
- **State Management:** NgRx for managing application state, offering Redux-like state management.
- **Testing:** Jest for unit testing and Cypress for end-to-end testing.

## Further Help

For more help on Nx, refer to the [Nx Documentation](https://nx.dev/angular).
